Well, I really appreciate Pastor Tim giving me the opportunity to preach and I'm going to talk the next four weeks and the thing that God really has laid on my heart is something that, you know, if you take it, if you internalize it, if you chew on it, if you think about it, it can be life changing for every single person that's in here.
I had a lot of really great mentors growing up, you know, like I told you, the first time I was hired as a youth minister,
I was 19 years old.
I mean I'd only graduated high school one year prior.
And that church was crazy.
I'm not sure what that's going on there.
But now I'm 52 years old and I've not been out of ministry in that time.
But God has consistently brought people into my lives that speak things into my heart and my mind just like He has you.
And this message these next four weeks is on losing to win.
And what does the Bible teach us?
And how does that impact our worldview?
How ought to that impact our worldview?
And don't matter, it doesn't matter if you're in kindergarten or if you're 97 years old today, there's something in here that applies to every single person.
And it's really, I'm not sure that I need notes because it's a really simple, very simple sermon today.
But you have billions of brain cells and they work great right up until the point you get up in front of people to talk.
And then you're lucky to even get two to rub together.
And so we're going to do that.
But one of the greatest pieces of advice that I ever got and something that I've carried with me the entire time I've been in ministry was from a pastor of mine named Robert Davenport.
And what Robert told me one time was really awesome.
And it's like I said, it's affected everything in ministry for me.
He said, Lance, he said, if people know that they love you, you love them.
They'll sit through some bad sermons.
But he said, if they don't know that you love them, they won't.
And, you know, obviously he was teaching me a lesson about how much you ought to love the people with whom you're blessed to serve alongside.
And so I want to tell each of you today how much I love you.
Okay?
And I mean that, you know, I may have joking about that, but also mean it sincerely.
And so, all right, well, let's get started here.
A charity worker, I heard about that we're going to talk about what is the definition of success, right?
We know the definition of a success according to our culture, but today we're going to talk about what is the definition of success in terms of what the Bible teaches us about our lives, having purpose and having meaning and not being wasted.
And so that's going to be what we're going to be talking about for the next four weeks.
But I heard about this charity worker who was really involved with the richest man in the town that they lived in.
And he goes to the man and he says, sir, you've been extremely successful in this town.
He said, you know, you have the biggest house that's here.
You own the most property.
You got the best looking cars.
And he says, I just wonder, you know, how come you don't ever give anything to charity?
Well, the man thought about it for a minute and he said, son, did you know that my wife's mother has been suffering for years in the hospital?
And she requires constant care and medical expenses.
And the charity worker said, no, I was not aware of that fact.
He said, my brother's got seven kids.
He just got in an accident at work because of unsafe conditions, and they fired him.
And now they're refusing him compensation.
And the charity worker says, I'm really sorry to hear about that.
And he says, my own son and his new wife have a newborn baby.
Their house was destroyed by a tree that fell down in the storm last year.
And insurance hasn't even given them a penny.
The charity workers, I'm very sorry to have taken up your valuable time.
And the rich man said, if I haven't given any of them money, what makes you think I'm going to give it to you?
So how do Americans define success?
Well,
Gallup recently did a survey of Americans to see how they define success.
And this was the core definition according to Americans about what success is.
59% said happiness, right?
We all want to be happy.
There's no question we want to be happy.
But happiness, of course, is different than joy because happy depends on circumstances.
Whereas joy is something that rises out of your soul and out of your heart because of your relationship with Jesus Christ.
And they define happiness as the ability to spend money on experiences.
So happiness is me.
Right?
35% of them said time and freedom for themselves.
35 said physical well-being.
And 97% said following their own interests and desires to become the best that they can be.
What about financially?
And this is going to blow your mind, folks.
Americans believe an average salary of $270,000 a year and a net worth of $5.3 million qualifies as success.
I mean, don't keep the bar low, right?
I mean, just go ahead and raise it right on up there.
If you're in GNZ, this is how you define success.
If you were born from 1997 to 2012,
that what you define is a salary of $588,000 a year and a net worth of $9.5 million.
And you're successful.
Millennials born from 1981 to 1996 say a salary of $181,000 and a net worth of $5.6 million.
Gen X was just my generation, the forgotten generation,
Born from 1965 to 1980, we define success as a salary of $212,000 a year and a net worth of $5.3 million.
The only folks that have any sense are the baby boomers.
It's y'all clapping for yourself.
They define success as $100,000 a year that they make in a net worth of $1.1 million.
My goodness, it's no wonder that we live in a culture awash in failed expectation and in depression and in anxiety.
If this is the measure that you think you have to have in order to be successful in your life, man, most of us, if not all of us, are gonna fall so far short
of that, which is just going to generate feelings of failure in our own minds and in our own hearts.
And that's the thing, folks.
Greed is a black hole that you can never dig yourself out of without the power of Jesus.
Right?
Because what the Bible says about being successful, we're going to learn has nothing to do with any of these things.
What I want us to do before we get into this passage in Kings, and we haven't done this here in a long time, but what God kind of elated on my heart is, I want you just to take a moment before we read God's word and silently pray and say, God, remove the distractions from my life that would cause me not to be able to hear the Holy Spirit speaking to my heart.
Let me put aside the things that I've got to do later today and later this week and all the things I've got to do at work on Monday.
and just calm my heart and let it be still and say, Holy Spirit, I want to see and hear what you have for me today.
So take a moment and pray and we'll get started in Second Kings.
All right, well, the Bible teaches that the key to success right in the Christian life is through unconditional, unconditional.
That's something that I struggle with mightily.
It's a word that every single person that's building struggles with mightily.
But it says the key to success is unconditional surrender to God.
So there's this passage in 2 Kings chapter 7, and this happens almost 3,000 years ago to a time after King David and King Solomon had ruled Israel.
And at this point, the nation is divided.
And of course, the northern kingdom is Israel, and the southern kingdom is Judah.
And the northern kingdom is led by a king named Jehoram.
And Jehoram is at war with the Syrians.
And the Syrians are also called the Arameans.
So in some of your translations it may say Syrians.
In some of your translations it may say the Arameans.
But the living conditions, they are in the midst of being sieged by the Syrians.
And the Syrians are doing it the way that a lot of things were done.
We don't see it in Hollywood movies today.
But one of the ways that you would try to invade a fortified city is that you would simply try to starve the people in that city out, deprive them of water, deprive them of supplies and everything else.
And then eventually they will all either get sick and die and you don't have to fight anybody.
or so many of them, their reserves will be so depleted that your army won't have any trouble taking over the place in which you want to conquer.
And so these people here are absolutely desperate.
The living conditions were so bleak that a donkey's head, which is disgusting, sold for two pounds of silver.
Two pounds of silver in today's process is $2,000.
That was how desperate they were.
Hunger was so widespread that the people resorted to cannibalism to attempt to stay alive.
I mean, this is the definition of a desperate, desperate situation.
In the midst of that terrible siege, Elisha
predicted that within a single day, he told the king, within a single day, God is going to reverse these conditions and there's going to be a surplus of food.
Now you can imagine what the king and probably almost everybody in town thought about that.
How is this going to change in one day?
I don't know how long the Syrians have been outside of their gates, but I would imagine for a while for them to get into the conditions that they're into in this passage in 2 Kings.
They've been out there for a long time and Elisha comes in and says, listen, God's going to change this entire situation within 24 hours.
I mean, you know, I kind of wonder if I were in that town, do I believe that God is big enough to do something like that?
I mean, it's easy for me to say, of course I believe it because I have food in my refrigerator, right?
I have everything that I need.
But if I were in this kind of a desperate situation, what would I think?
You know, how would my face be?
So let's read about it.
He says, now there were four men with leprosy at the entrance to the city gate.
They said to each other, why stay here until we die?
That's option one.
If we say we'll go into the city, the famine is there and we will die.
That's option two.
If we stay here, we will die.
So let's go over to the camp of the Arameans and surrender.
If they spare us, we live.
That's an option.
If they kill us, we die.
At dusk, they got up and went to the camp of the Arameans.
When they reached the edge of the camp, not a man was there.
Wow.
For the Lord had caused the Arameans to hear the sound of chariots and horses in a great army so that they said to one another, look, the king of Israel has hired the Hittite and the Egyptian kings to attack us.
So they got up and fled in the dusk and abandoned their tents and their horses and donkeys.
They left the camp as it was and ran for their lives.
The men who had leprosy reached the edge of the camp and entered into one of the tents.
They ate and they drank and they carried away silver, gold and clothes and went off and hid them.
They returned and also entered another tent and took some things from it and hid it also.
Then they said to each other, we're not doing right.
This is the day of good news and we're keeping it to ourselves.
If we wait until daylight, punishment will overtake us.
Let's go at once and report this to the Royal Palace.
Folks, one of the things that is super critical is to understand that faith is simply believing that God will do what he has said that he will do.
And he will do it in the manner in which he said he will do it.
And he uses oftentimes the least of these
to accomplish his plan and his purpose.
These lepers are by far the least of these.
And so these men had some really important choices, right?
And all of us have some of these choices.
The first is, you know, they're suffering from this terrible skin disease.
They're on the verge of starvation.
They're diseased.
They're dying.
They're desperate.
And they may have thought we're totally out of options.
There's nothing that we can do.
And you may be here today and you may think, you know what, Lance, I'm facing a health crisis.
Or I don't know whether I'm going to survive.
Or you might say, you know, I'm surviving a really bad marriage.
And you may think I'm really trying to die emotionally.
And I've got this massive job or financial crisis or whatever.
I mean, the choices are far and wide to the things that can bring us to despair in our own hearts and in our own minds.
But the fact is your future will be determined by the choices that you make.
William Jennings Bryan once wrote, destiny is not a matter of chance.
It is a matter of choice.
And that's the truth.
Now there are things that happen to us that are, of course, are out of our control.
But what is within our control is how do we respond to those things when they happen?
And so the first option people have is you can choose retreat.
You can go back and you can starve.
And verse four, it says, well, we'll go into the city.
The famine is there and we will die.
So their first option is, hey, we'll just turn around and go right back to the city that's under siege.
I mean, these lepers were suffering from severe malnutrition.
They were starving.
And folks in the same way, it's possible for us to suffer from severe spiritual malnutrition.
The Bible says that we ought to be growing spiritually to become more and more like Jesus Christ.
You know, our salvation occurs really in three phases.
Phase one is the Holy Spirit stirs in your heart and in your mind, and He causes you to see Jesus for who He is.
And you choose to give your life to Him because of His death on the cross, because of His sinless condition, because He was born of a virgin.
He lived a perfect life.
He died on a cross.
for my sin and for your sin, and you believe that he rose again, and that he's coming back again.
That's phase one.
Phase two is sanctification.
That is where God wants to make me more like Jesus.
Now I do not participate in phase one, and I'm not gonna directly participate in phase three, but I absolutely participate in phase two.
It requires my heart to say, God, I want so much of you.
I want more of you.
I want to study your word more.
I want to hear your voice more.
I want to pray more.
I want to listen to you more.
You know, you just can't get enough.
And phase three, of course, is our glorification.
And that is whenever we, when Jesus comes back and we receive our new bodies, the dead in Christ shall rise, right?
And that is glorification.
And so in the midst of the longest phase that we live in is sanctification, right?
Well, eventually glorification, because that's eternity, but I'm talking about right here, is sanctification.
And so these folks decide, you know, maybe we should just go back to the city and die.
You know, a lot of folks are stuck.
They're stuck on the vine dying spiritually.
If there was ever a time in your life when you were more committed to serve Christ,
then you are at this moment, then you may have gone backwards.
And that's true of me, right?
I'm preaching to the choir here, folks.
Every single one of these things applies to me.
Maybe without even being aware of it, we just make a choice to retreat.
It might have been, you know, when we stopped gathering together at church, you know, it's a tragedy that so many young people
do not see the value of being in church.
You cannot grow to be the person that God has called you to be unless you are involved in church.
I didn't make up those rules.
God made up those rules.
And church is a place where we can support each other, we can love each other, we can serve each other, we can care for each other, and we can learn more.
about God's plan and God's purpose and God's will in our own lives and in the lives of others.
We often in Baptist culture use the word backsliding.
It's easy to do.
It's not called back climbing.
It's called backsliding.
It's just like sliding down a slippery slope.
And all of us ought to examine ourself and say, it is my faith that was once strong and vibrant.
Has it become cold?
and dead.
I read a story one time about a tribe in the jungle, and they had discovered an ancient sundial.
They regarded it as a great luck omen, so guess what they did to it?
They built a tent over it.
I mean, in their desire to honor it, they had rendered it useless.
And that's how a lot of people view
Christianity is it's like a fetish, but it really has no practical value.
It's a once a week habit.
And the rest of the week, I don't have to think about it and I don't have to worry about it.
But that one time a week where I'm enclosed in stained glass and steeples and all these other things that we associate with church, that's when I'll be there.
But the rest of the week, it doesn't have a whole lot of bearing on me.
If that's how you feel or I feel, then we're in retreat.
These guys also had a second choice.
They could do nothing and die.
First four says, and if we stay here, we will die.
I mean, they faced the possibility of just doing nothing.
Folks doing nothing is the easiest thing to do, right?
I mean, I could sit on my couch or sit in my chair rocking
for really a disturbingly long period of time, doing nothing.
Right?
Verse three, the lepers asked themselves a question we all need to ask, why stay here until we die?
I have a pastor friend who was walking through his den and he noticed his teenage son who was a star athlete was watching HGTV.
Nothing, not that there's anything wrong with that channel, okay?
And he said, son, why are you watching that channel?
And the son said, well, dad, that's the only channel I can watch.
The remote control is broken.
And his dad said, son, back in the good old days, I'll have you know that I used to have to get up and walk barefoot through shag carpet and change that channel on the TV myself.
And he said, you can do the same thing.
His son didn't really know or he had forgotten that he could change the channel himself.
So he was just sitting there watching, too lazy to move.
So what are signs that we're doing that we're doing nothing?
I'm going to go through these real quick.
There's feelings and there's attitudes.
There's a lack of interest or enthusiasm in spiritual things.
Does it excite you to come to church?
Does it excite you to go to a small group?
Does it excite you to worship God in song and to listen to all our great musicians and the folks that lead worship and are so faithful to do that every single week?
Does it excite you?
Do you want it?
Or are you just on autopilot?
Spiritual box checking.
Man, I've done this a lot.
I've prayed a lot.
out of duty and not desire.
And you know when I usually fall into that temptation?
It's when I need prayer the most.
Right?
It's when I'm in crisis and I need prayer the most that I sometimes decide I just don't want to do it.
There is a war for our souls.
It could be guilt or disappointment, this idea that you've been let down
by yourself or that your faith has let you down.
There's other signs of spiritual stagnation, right?
There's anxiety that consumes you instead of peace, right?
Do you have the peace of God in your heart, in your mind, in your life to know that He is absolutely sovereign, that you are not invisible to Him, that He loves you,
and that he sees every move that you make, and he has ordered your steps, and he is not going to lose you if you belong to him.
How about self-centeredness?
Focusing only on our own concerns over others.
Doleness, just a general feeling of being sluggish or heavy.
I mean, I felt that right after Thanksgiving, so I don't know.
I don't think it means heavy in the same sense I'm talking about.
But you know what I'm talking about, right?
This is this feeling that we can't get up and get moving.
There's external signs too, right?
We skip Bible study.
We skip prayer.
We skip worship.
We're afraid that God might speak to us and therefore we avoid being there.
How about perfunctory prayer, praying mechanically?
but not personally.
God already knows what you need.
Talk to him like a father.
Some people unfortunately have a hard time with that because they have had terrible experiences with their earthly fathers and I get that.
But God is not like, if your earthly dad was a bad dad, God is the polar opposite of that.
And you can taste and see that he is good.
loss of joy and worship, right?
No longer singing.
You come and you feel, you don't feel moved at all during the service.
Giving in to temptation, right?
Struggling more and more and more with the sins that you used to resist.
You don't want to be involved in anything anymore, right?
No desire to serve.
No desire to engage with the church community.
Finally, you're just stuck in cycles, repeatedly falling into the same things over and over and over and over and over again.
And I understand how that can feel.
I struggle with that same exact thing myself.
We all struggle with that same exact things ourselves.
And we ought not to be afraid to talk about those kind of things.
because they are universal.
Every Christian on planet earth struggles with this stuff because there is an enemy and we aren't perfect.
Right?
My seminary professor used to say, there's only one perfect man that ever lived in Bubba, you ain't him.
Well, these choices of life,
Finally, all of us have the ability to choose to take a risk, to take a chance and surrender.
In verse four, he says, let's go over to the camp of the Arameans and surrender.
If they spare us, we live.
If they kill us, then we die.
Finally, these lepers who are already dying of a disease, right?
Because leprosy is fatal all the time.
Now they're malnourished.
Now they're, they probably are suffering all kinds of physical ailments and pain on top of the leprosy that they already have to deal with.
And some of you know how to do, that you deal with that.
You have an underlying health condition and you just, something else happens and it's just like brick upon brick of feeling bad and terrible and feeling worse and worse and worse, either mentally or physically.
So finally they say, we got nothing to lose folks.
If they kill us, we'll die.
But we're gonna die anyway.
But this choice to risk it all and to surrender was the smartest choice they made in their entire lives.
And you might be at a place right now where you're desperate and you don't know what to do.
And you know it's a lot easier to retreat or just to stand where you are
than it is to risk it all and surrender to God.
But I promise you friend, God won't let you down.
He loves you.
He cares about you.
Other people love you.
They care about you.
Taste and see that the Lord is good.
The same way there's lots of people who are so cautious and so fearful that they go through life never risking anything.
and their lives, if they're not careful, end up being like a boring ending of baseball.
There's no hits, right?
No runs, nothing.
The truth is that if you risk doing something, you may fail.
But it's a lot better to attempt something great for God and fail than it is to never attempt anything.
This great old hymn, right?
Take my life and let it be.
Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee.
Take my moments and my days, let them flow in endless praise.
Take my hands and let them move all the impulse at the impulse of thy love, right?
The impulse of God's love.
Take my feet and let them be swift and beautiful for thee.
Take my voice and let me sing always, only for my King.
Take my lips and let them be filled with messages from thee.
Take my silver and take my gold, not a mite would I withhold.
Take my intellect and use every power as thou shalt choose.
Take my will and make it thine.
It shall no longer be mine.
Take my heart.
It is thine own.
It shall be thy royal throne.
Take my love, my Lord.
I pour at thy feet its treasure store.
Take myself and I will be ever only all for thee."
I mean, except for the these and the thou's in there, that pretty much says it all, doesn't it?
So what do we have to learn from this?
I love this quote by Henry Neuwin.
He said, spiritual maturity is not knowing what to do with your whole life.
but just knowing what to do next.
And that's absolutely true.
Jesus was on to something when he said each day has enough trouble of its own.
To always be focused on the future is to borrow pain from the future.
Right?
You can only be, you can only live this place now.
And so what are the lessons?
The lessons there are that God requires only one thing from you and that is your all.
He doesn't just want your soul.
He doesn't just want your emotions.
He wants all of it.
Romans 12 once says here in the message version says, here's what I want you to do.
God helping you.
Take your everyday ordinary life.
You're sleeping, you're eating, you're going to work and walking around life.
and place it before God as an offering.
And when it comes to our commitment, God wants all of us.
You know, you can illustrate this principle in your body, right?
We have muscles.
I don't know how many we have.
I used to know.
But think about a muscle like the bicep.
I can control how much I contract that muscle, can I?
I mean, I don't want to show you my biceps because I don't want anybody to be in awe.
But we can control it.
We can flex it a little bit.
We can flex it a little more, or we could just do the full thing, right?
But there's another muscle in our body.
And unlike my bicep, it contracts involuntarily.
And every single time it contracts, it totally contracts.
It is an all or nothing muscle.
And it's my heart.
And when we're giving it all, we live.
And when that heart stops contracting, you die.
But your heart is all in.
It contracts the most it can every single beat.
And we want to be all in like our heart, not all in like a bicep.
When it comes to giving it all, we'll live.
The Bible says we are to seek God with our whole heart.
And that means that we surrender totally to Him.
We give Him all of us.
We contract our emotional and our mental and our spiritual muscles in seeking and serving Him.
You know, I told the men yesterday that there are the cross, picture the cross in your mind.
The cross, there are two beams to that cross.
There is a vertical beam, but there is also a horizontal beam to that cross.
And a lot of times, if you're like me or a lot of other folks, you only focus on the vertical beam.
What is my relationship with God?
But there is a horizontal beam as well.
And if you don't get both of them, then you miss the gospel.
I'm not saying that you're not saved.
I'm saying that you miss the richness and the fullness of the whole gospel.
There's a horizontal beam and there is a vertical beam.
You know, it really comes down to your worldview.
God wants to change our worldviews.
God wants me to think about people who are suffering.
God wants me to identify the people who are the least of these in our culture and in our society.
And he wants me to go toward them, not away from them.
Right?
If you think of the parable of when Jesus talks about being salt and light, Tim Keller says, salt arrests decay.
But the only way salt can arrest decay is if it has contact with decay.
Otherwise, it can't help them.
God wants to know, God wants to have not only how you vertically relate to him,
But he also wants you to see that that vertical relationship that you have with him changes your heart and your mind and your spirit so that it changes the horizontal relationships that you have with all other people.
I've said this before, but the only thing you're gonna deal with that is eternal today are the people that you meet.
Everything else is temporary.
And so I ask you, man,
Are you at a place where you have surrendered and said, God, I want to give you what I think about other people.
I want to give you my prejudice.
I want to give you what I think about wealth.
I want to give you what I think about the house that I live in.
I want to give you what you think about the gifts that I have.
I want to give you what you think about my career.
I want to give you, see, God wants all of it.
And I said this as well.
If you've been walking with the Lord for a long time,
but your worldview hasn't changed, then you're probably, you don't have a biblical worldview.
Because a biblical worldview and a Christian worldview changes you.
I think differently about the people than I used to.
I think differently about wealth than I used to.
I think differently about possessions than I used to.
I certainly think differently about career than I used to.
Nobody is born wanting to be a pastor.
I can assure you, you know, the other thing is that when we surrender, He will take care of you.
This is really the question, isn't it?
If I surrender, will God take care of me?
Because we don't like giving up control.
We think we can control our environment.
We can't control anything.
I ask people oftentimes when they come in for counseling, I say, you should ask yourself two questions.
Number one is, do I have any control over this situation?
You'll find that 99% of the time the answer is no.
And number two, if you do have control over this situation, do you believe that you have done what God has called you to do in that situation?
Because that's it.
That's all you can do.
These guys took a chance in verse eight.
The men who had leprosy reached the edge of the camp and entered one of the tents.
They ate and drink and carried away silver, gold and clothes and went off and hid them.
They returned and entered another tent and took some things from it and hid them also.
They enjoyed the spoils of the battle without even having to fight.
Can you imagine their joy upon seeing food and drinks?
and silver and gold and clothes, they went from growling stomachs and empty hands to literally more than they could possibly handle.
There's a great lesson for us there.
Second Corinthians chapter eight verse nine says, you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ yet for your sakes he became poor that you through his poverty might become rich.
There's a lot of people who have tons of money but they're miserable.
You don't experience richness until you surrender to Jesus who knows everything that you need and promises to take care of you.
One of my favorite promises is in that verse in Ephesians chapter 3 verse 20.
He says, now unto him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine
according to his power that is at work within us.
God says listen surrender to me and I'll do things you can't even ask me for because they're so awesome you don't know to ask.
And I will imagine things and they're beyond your imagination.
The last thing we learn here is that when you experience God's love it's pretty hard to stay silent.
These lepers were not content
to just enjoy all of that by themselves.
And verse nine, it says, we're not doing right.
This is a day of good news and we're keeping it to ourselves.
If we wait until daylight, punishment will overtake us.
Let's go at once and report this to the Royal Palace.
I mean, these guys had good news to share.
They ran back to Samaria to share their good news.
They came into the camp and enjoyed, a whole camp enjoyed,
the spoils of everything that God had provided for them.
I mean, when you think about how you have experienced the riches of God, it's hard to stay silent and keep it to yourself.
Sharing our faith, every share of our faith doesn't have to be a full blown gospel, you know, recitation.
Sharing your faith is also encouraging people.
Sharing your faith is also telling somebody who looks like they're in distress, you give them a hug, or you give them a kind word.
Being in the grocery store and you're kind to the cashier and you're kind to the other people, being in a restaurant where you treat the waiter or the waitress really well, all of those things, right?
Plant seeds, that there is something that is different about us than there is about everybody else.
What happened to Jeremiah, right?
He said, he was persecuted and he was rejected.
And he tried to be quiet, but he couldn't.
And he said, finally in Jeremiah chapter 20, verse nine, he said, I will not mention him or speak any more of his name.
This word is in my heart, like a fire, a fire shut up in my bones.
I am weary of holding it in.
Indeed, I cannot.
I mean, we ought to be excited about the ability to share the good news with folks.
Fanny Crosby was blind.
She could never see Jesus.
She saw Jesus in a way that very few of us can.
And she wrote, I think of my blessed Redeemer.
I think of Him all the day long.
I sing for I cannot be silent.
His love is the theme of my song.
Redeemed, redeemed, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb.
Redeemed, redeemed His child and forever I am.
You know several years ago that movie Aviator came out and there was a big interest for a while in the life of Howard Hughes.
I mean he dated actresses, he piloted test aircraft, he owned a chain of hotels and casinos.
When he was alive he was estimated to be worth more than two billion dollars and that is two billion dollars sixty something years ago.
That today would probably be close to who knows what.
Hundreds of billions of dollars.
But the true test of a man's character is how he finishes his race.
Howard Hughes's last years were spent out of salation.
He was hidden on the top floor of the Xanadu Hotel in the Bahamas.
And one person, that really sounded Bahamas, not Bahamers.
That was Texas.
I'm sorry.
I apologize.
This is what one biographer wrote about him.
He was emaciated, practically skeletal.
with only 120 pounds stretched over his six foot four inch frame, he was not dead, but it seemed his body was already in decay.
Only the long gray hair that trailed halfway down his back, the thin straggly beard that reached midway onto his sunken chest and his hideously long nails that extended several inches in grotesque yellow corkscrews from his fingers and toes seemed to still be growing.
still showing signs of life.
A tumor had emerged from the side of his head, a red lump protruding from the sparse strands of gray hair.
His bed sores festered all the way down his back, some so severe that eventually one shoulder bone poked through his parchment like skin.
Then there were the needle marks.
The telltale tracks ran the full length of both of his thin arms, scarred his thighs,
and clustered horribly around his groin.
He lay naked in bed, deathly afraid of germs, even given his condition.
He watched his favorite movie, Ice Station Zebra, at least 150 times.
Finally emaciated and hooked on drugs, he died at the age of 67.
When he died in 1976, there was no one
to claim his body.
Finally, a distant cousin was given custody of his body, and he said, is this Mr. Hughes?
Time magazine reported Howard Hughes' death was commemorated in Las Vegas by a minute of silence as the casinos went silent.
Housewives stood uncomfortably clutching their paper cups full of coins for the slot machines.
The Blackjack games paused.
All the dice tables paused.
Then a pit boss looked at his watch, leaned forward, and he said, okay, roll the dice.
He's had his minute.
It reminds me of what Jesus said when he said, what shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world but loses his soul?
Now listen, most of us are probably not gonna die within a state worth more than two billion.
If you do, please remember me.
But listen, folks, you have something much more valuable than anything he had.
When you unconditionally surrender your life to God, you have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, and that is life.
The great song, Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe.
Sin had left a crimson stain, but he washed it white as snow.
Let's pray together.
Father God, I pray, Lord, I want to unconditionally surrender my life to you.
God, as anybody, there are parts of my life that I just, I don't know if I want you to look into.
There are crevices where I don't know that I want you to find.
There are things in hiding places.
And God, I don't think I'm the only one in this room like that.
Father, I pray, God, that you stir in our hearts and our minds
full surrender, God.
And it's moment by moment.
It's not year by year.
It's not a one-time thing.
It is minute by minute saying, not my will, but yours be done.
And God, in that we truly find life.
And our life truly has meaning.
And we live a legacy to the generations that will come after us.
So God, if anyone's here today and they've not completely surrendered, God,
I pray that they would grab me or grab Pastor Tim, Pastor Josh or one of the elders or the person sitting next to him and say, listen, I want to surrender everything.
God, I know that you're going to work in the hearts and the minds of all of us just like you've worked in my heart and mind this whole week as I've prepared this message.
So let us yield ourselves to you for it's in Christ's name we pray.
Amen.